# Cloud Media Sharing Android App
Share Images, Videos and PDFs among your Friends and Families with this Android App App.


**Libraries Imported:**

1) Picasso - To display Images.
2) ExoPlayer - For Video Controls(Play/Pause), Fullscreen Layout and Buffering.
3) Video Compressor Module - for compressing Videos.
4) Firebase - To implement Firebase Storage, Realtime Database and Authentication.

**PLAN:**

1) Multiple users can **Register** and **Login** on to the app.
2) Create their own folders in which they can store their Videos, Images and Documents.
3) 3 floating buttons for uploading Images, Videos and documents respectively.
4) Images and Videos will get **Compressed** when Uploading without affecting their Quality.
5) Different Fragments for Images, Videos and Documents are made.
6) Navigating to the menu, find the **Users List**, all the users of this app will be available in this section.
7) **Search** for the particular user you want to see the contents.
8) On clicking for a particular user, it will ask you to input the required folder name you want to access.
9) On typing the correct folder name (case-sensitive), it will give access to its media.
10) **Download** the images directly to your local device (or) **Share** the link to that image with others via Social media.
11) **Streaming** the video directly through the app (or) **Download** it (or) **Share** the video link via social media.
12) **Download** or **View** the PDF documents from the Documents Fragment.
13) After your work is completed, click on the **Logout** button on the menu to log out of the app.

**PROCESS:**

1) User has Registration and Login pages.
2) Firebase Authentication is used for registering and login.
3) Checking system for valid email and password.
4) An user is alloted a name, an email, password and a specific id(automatically generated and checked by firebase).
5) This values are stored according to their specific IDs in the firebase.
6) Successfully logging in, directs to Home Page.
7) Home page contains your created folders and a floating button to create a new folder.
8) To create a New Folder, you have to add any image or video first and give it a Name which acts as a password for other users to access  your folder.
9) After creating the new folder, you are directed to the main page.
10) In the main page, you can view all your uploaded files and 3 floating buttons to upload files.
11) After creating a folder, all of your folders will be alloted to a Node named "Multiple" in firebase database.
12) Each time you create a Folder, a new Node will be created with the folder name in the Multiple node.
13) When uploading an image, Bitmap function is used to store the image and also to Compress it with 50% of its quality but it doesn't have a damaging effect to your image.
14) Successful uploading of the image will create a node in the folder node with the name "Images" node in which this image node will be saved and the real image file will be uploaded to the Firebase storage.
15) When the image is fully uploaded, you can view the image in the Images fragment and it will have a download function to save it in your local device.
16) With a Sharing button, we can share the particular image link with our friends in any type of social media. The image link is automatically created by the firebase storage when an image is stored in it.
17) When uploading a video, you have to specify a name for it and the video url will be automatically generated by the firebase storage.
18) For compressing the video, we have imported another Video Compressor library, which can easily compress our videos for a small size.
19) Successfully uploading a video, we can view and stream it in the Videos fragment, Download it and Share the link with others.
20) For controlling/Streaming the video in the app, Exoplayer library is used which provides the control setup and layout for the video player. For eg. you can find the play/pause, next/previous, the streaming bar and the control to switch you video in landscape and portrait mode.
21) "Videos" node will be created in the "Multiple" node to store all the videos nodes which is consisting of name and url.
22) The same process goes for the documents/PDF uploading but this is not compressed as it will affect the quality of the document.
23) You can view the PDF in the Documents fragment and can directly download it to the local device.
24) When you want to see a particular user's contents, navigate to the Users List page.
25) Search for the particular user you want to see the contents using the Search bar.
26) Clicking on the particular user, a new page is opened in which you have just to enter the folder name to access that particular folder contents.
27) Entering the Correct folder name, you can access all the Images, videos and pdf documents, the other user has uploaded in it.
28) Can view, download and share the files as well.


**Some Android Perspective Points:**

1) Card Views are used for Image and Video segments (and) also in Users List and Folders List.
2) They are placed in the Recycler view in an Array list in their own respective fragments.
3) SharedPreferences is used to navigate data and ids throughout the project.
4) The Whole Realtime Database is provided by Firebase and the same is connected to Firebase Storage and Authentication.
5) Exoplayer is fully used in the Video functional parts.
6) Compression in Images is done by Bitmap and in Videos, a Video Compressor Module is used.
7) Picasso library is used to display Images.
8) Adapters for all the lists has been created to hold all the components of a particular user.



**NOTE - This Application was Made by Me in my 3rd year of B. Tech**

Copyright Disclaimer Under Section 107 of the Copyright Act 1976, allowance is made for "fair use" for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching, scholarship, and research. Fair use is a use permitted by copyright statute that might otherwise be infringing. Non-profit, educational or personal use tips the balance in favor of fair use.

